## Encryption Passwords
Generally, the encryption password provided by the user to encrypt / decrypt
account configurations is kept in memory as short as possible. However, `oidc-agent` can keep them in memory (encrypted) so it can update the configuration file when a provider issues a new refresh token. This option is not enabled on default and has to enabled explicitly by the user.

If the user did not enable any password caching feature and `oidc-agent` needs an encryption password because it has to update the account configuration file, the user will be prompted for the password. However, if a provider uses rotating refresh tokens, this might be impractical, because the user has to enter his encryption password whenever a new access token is issued. We therefore implemented different password caching features:
- `oidc-agent` can keep the encryption password in memory. The encryption password will be well encrypted; and the password used for this encryption is dynamically generated when the agent starts. The time how long the encryption password should be kept in memory can also be limited, i.e. after that time the password will be cleared from memory.
- `oidc-agent` can also save the encryption password in the system's password manager (keyring). Because any other application running as the same user then has access to this password, `oidc-agent` still applies encryption on the user's password, even though the keyring will save the password encrypted. However, to prevent other applications to obtain the plain password, we only store the encrypted password.
- `oidc-agent` can also retrieve the encryption password from a user provided command; the output of this command will be used as the encryption password. The command used will be kept encrypted in memory, because it is used to obtain the encryption password without any additional checks, it should be treated the same way as the encryption password itself. Because with this option the user does not have to enter his password at any point (also not when loading the account configuration with `oidc-add`) it might be especially useful when writing scripts.


